lick number 5 i'll call cannonball
Travis it's kind of my take on some
Travis picking the Cannonball rag famous
song it's in the key of G we got a nice
train beat going and we're going to be
working on some hybrid pic and so yeehaw
so what we're working with here is some
classic country vibe some merle travis
style triplet picking and we're in the
key of G right and what I have here is
let's just start off with this is more
of an idea and again like an approach
that you can add to your playing the
technique or the lik here is it's a G
chord like a little triad ok but really
it's all in the right hand and i'm using
this finger technique some i'm picking
with my thumb and these two fingers and
I'm alternating so I'm going thumb
finger thumb finger sorry all three have
a string my thumb is on the D the index
finger is on the G this finger I here is
on the B so its thumb finger finger
that's the lick ok I mean that that's
the the Travis
if you can master that technique in that
lit you can use that in so many
different songs and approaches and feels
so in this particular feel I'm playing
this G chord I'm also alternating
between taking the third and leaving the
open string the open G to kind of get
like a banjo feel
play it right up to the fore and I go to
the C chord here up on the 7th fret and
do the same thing
and I'll even leave that open
and then on the 5 i'm doing an inversion
over the d which is really just to d
with an f-sharp here's the cord
can I pull that G open
and that cruel is that so there there's
the lickin plane
I played it with the track in two
different fields because I wanted to
play it too straight and then I wanted
to add that sixteenth triplet feel which
is more of the classic country Travis
style let's run the track again I'll
show you
there's that
so you can tell the difference there
between the two and they're both totally
useful and the idea is it maybe you just
want to add a little bit of that country
vibe to a song and the whole key to
blues Americana here is uh this doesn't
have to be just a country song you know
or a blues on the idea is it can be
whatever song it is you might be playing
a good blues you know grinder and that
you can throw in this
in this country vibe in there and that's
what keeps in Americana that's what it's
all about is mixing the styles and in
creating your own your own style your
own sound